# State Decoded  / Vagrant Configuration

A Vagrant configuration for State Decoded, to make it easy to get started.

### Install Vagrant and git!

Installing Vagrant is very simple—simply [follow the instructions](http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/installation/).

You'll also need VirtualBox. If you've installed version 5, you'll also want to install
the Vagrant plugin, vagrant-vbguest. Here's how:

```
vagrant plugin install vagrant-vbguest
vagrant plugin list
```

You can find an installer for git [here](http://git-scm.com/downloads)

### Dowload the code and start the Vagrant Machine

* From the command line run `git clone https://github.com/statedecoded/statedecoded-vagrant`
* cd into the statedecoded-vagrant directory
* Download the git submodules using: `git submodule update --init`
* Fix the Solr module and the config-sample.inc.php using these diffs
```
$ git submodule foreach git diff
Entering 'modules/solr'
diff --git a/manifests/params.pp b/manifests/params.pp
index d90297e..54f7735 100644
--- a/manifests/params.pp
+++ b/manifests/params.pp
@@ -5,7 +5,7 @@ class solr::params {
       $solr_version = '4.5.0'
       $solr_home = '/opt'
       # needs to be full path to apache root
-      $apache_mirror = "apache.cs.utah.edu" #because this is sometimes depressingly slow
+      $apache_mirror = "archive.apache.org/dist/" #not all mirrors have old stuff
       $zookeeper_hosts = ""
       $exec_path = '/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/usr/local/bin:/opt/local/bin'
       $java_home = '/usr/lib/jvm/default-java'
Entering 'src'
diff --git a/includes/config-sample.inc.php b/includes/config-sample.inc.php
index 9768935..e32a0eb 100644
--- a/includes/config-sample.inc.php
+++ b/includes/config-sample.inc.php
@@ -104,7 +104,7 @@ define('THEMES_DIR', WEB_ROOT . '/themes/');
  * Which theme to use.
  */
 define('THEME_NAME', 'StateDecoded2013');
-define('THEME_DIR', TEMPLATE_DIR . THEME_NAME . '/');
+define('THEME_DIR', THEMES_DIR . THEME_NAME . '/');
 define('THEME_WEB_PATH', '/themes/' . THEME_NAME . '/');

 /*
```
* Run the command `vagrant up` (This can take roughly 10 minutes or slightly longer if this is the first time)

### Watch puppet take care of most of the installation! (hopefully!)
We are using puppet to provision our virtural machine. If you run into problems
at this stage please open a bug on github. Once puppet has finished running
several things have happened:

* The virtual machine exists on a private network, reachable at 192.168.42.33
* An apache server is running with its doc root at /var/www/statedecoded/htdocs
* A solr server is running with its home set to /var/www/statedecoded/solr_home
* A mysql server is running with a username and password specified at the top of manifests/default.pp (the root mysql password can be found at `~/root-mysql/.my.cnf`
* PHP and all of its dependencies have been installed
* A copy of the statedecoded source code has been placed at /var/www/statedecoded

At this point you are extremely close to having a running instance of the
statedecoded. What you need to do is finish the
configuration/setup of the statedecoded itself. Refer to the [manual](http://statedecoded.github.io/documentation/installation.html#basic-configuration) for the
for the whole picture of what happened. Anyway, you still need to download some laws in XML to
import and then run the law import. Before doing this you should test your
enviroment by going to http://192.168.42.33/admin/ and running the tests. Make
sure everything passses, if you can't figure out how to get a test to pass just ask somebody.  Once that is all done you should
be able to run the parser also at http://192.168.42.33/admin/ that imports the laws into mysql and solr.


### If all else fails!

If the puppet install is causing more problems than it is worth try the manual
installation. Create a new vagrant box and follow the [docs](http://statedecoded.github.io/documentation/installation.html#basic-configuration)!


### Debugging notes

* On your host machine the virtual machine is reachable at 192.168.42.33
* Meaning the statedecoded admin interface lives at http://192.168.42.33/admin


* If you want to run puppet from within the vagrant machine run this concise command: 
```bash
puppet apply --verbose --modulepath
'/etc/puppet/modules:/tmp/vagrant-puppet/modules-0' --manifestdir
/tmp/vagrant-puppet/manifests --detailed-exitcodes
/tmp/vagrant-puppet/manifests/default.pp
```

* Solr's admin interface is reachable at:
http://192.168.42.33:8983/solr/#

* You can run solr as a foreground process to see if it is having problems on
startup/running with (assuming you did the puppet install):
`/usr/bin/java -Dsolr.solr.home=/var/www/statedecoded/solr_home
-Djetty.home=/opt/solr/example -Djava.io.tmpdir=/tmp -jar
/opt/solr/example/start.jar`

* The php error log's generated by the statedecoded live in `/var/log/apache2/`

* Remember that patience is a virtue :)

